1 What is your greatest weakness?


2 What are your salary requirements?
Answer : "As per your company norms. And I am sure that you would offer a very good salary as per industry norms".
If the interviewer persists mention in a lighthearted jovial manner : "I may expect 50 lakhs but you would offer only as per your company norms".
    Question : "So would you go with whatever we offer?"
    Answer : "If it is fair and meets my expectation decently then yes. I seek employment in your organization more for the passion I for the job that you offer me" (remember, you are only making a statement and not a commitment to join)


3 Why should we hire you?


4 Why do you Switchover from your current Job?
Answer : "For better prospects." or "In my current company, there is very limited opportunities for growth. I understand that your organization has very good grwoth opportunities for performing employees and hence am applying for a job out here"
    Question : "So if you get a better opportunity while with our company, would leave this job too?"
    Answer : "I am confident about my abilities and am sure that I would grow in your organization and hence would'nt make a hasty exit unless there is lack of scope for me to grow in your organization."



5 What made you to choose our organisation?
normally this seems very simple question by the interviewer but,i find it requires all your skills and vocabulary to answer as you has to know most of the details of that company,capacity to compare from other its competitors,if money is more then you have to justify your expected hike or if one is really need of job at any cost,one has to praise that company even it is not worthy in reality!


6 If I knew it, it would not remain a weakness anymore


7 Why left previous organisation?


8 expected salary


9 Group I Service - personal interview question
Question : Why does the Govt . Officials tend to get more involved in corruption now-a-days?


10 Describe Yourself



11 Tell me something about yourself...


12 GOOD DEMAND FOR U, CAN SAY MORE...


13 Tell me about Greatest Weakness
I always do an improvement of myself when things seems gone to negativity

14 


15 Interview is related with the selection


16 Give Product presentation or How to sale this product?


17 What's your strength?
