Review these typical interview questions and think about how you would answer them. Read
the questions listed; you will also find some strategy suggestions with it.

1. Tell me about yourself:
The most often asked question in interviews. You need to have a short statement prepared in your mind. Be careful that it does not sound rehearsed. Limit it to work-related items unless instructed otherwise. Talk about things you have done and jobs you have held that relate to the position you are interviewing for. Start with the item farthest back and work up
to the present.

2. Why did you leave your last job?
Stay positive regardless of the circumstances. Never refer to a major problem with management and never speak ill of supervisors, co-workers or the organization. If you do,
you will be the one looking bad. Keep smiling and talk about leaving for a positive reason such as an opportunity, a chance to do something special or other forward-looking reasons.

3. What experience do you have in this field?
Speak about specifics that relate to the position you are applying for. If you do not have specific experience, get as close as you can.

4. Do you consider yourself successful?
You should always answer yes and briefly explain why. A good explanation is that you have set goals, and you have met some and are on track to achieve the others.

5. What do co-workers say about you?
Be prepared with a quote or two from co-workers. Either a specific statement or a
paraphrase will work. Jill Clark, a co-worker at Smith Company, always said I was the hardest workers she had ever known. It is as powerful as Jill having said it at the interview herself.

6. What do you know about this organization?
This question is one reason to do some research on the organization before the interview. Find out where they have been and where they are going. What are the current issues and
who are the major players?

7. What have you done to improve your knowledge in the last year?
Try to include improvement activities that relate to the job. A wide variety of activities can be mentioned as positive self-improvement. Have some good ones handy to mention.

8. Are you applying for other jobs?
Be honest but do not spend a lot of time in this area. Keep the focus on this job and what you can do for this organization. Anything else is a distraction.

9. Why do you want to work for this organization?
This may take some thought and certainly, should be based on the research you have done on the organization. Sincerity is extremely important here and will easily be sensed. Relate
it to your long-term career goals.

10. Do you know anyone who works for us?
Be aware of the policy on relatives working for the organization. This can affect your answer even though they asked about friends not relatives. Be careful to mention a friend only if
they are well thought of.

11. What kind of salary do you need?
A loaded question. A nasty little game that you will probably lose if you answer first. So, do not answer it. Instead, say something like, That's a tough question. Can you tell me the
range for this position? In most cases, the interviewer, taken off guard, will tell you. If not, say that it can depend on the details of the job. Then give a wide range.

12. Are you a team player?
You are, of course, a team player. Be sure to have examples ready. Specifics that show you often perform for the good of the team rather than for yourself are good evidence of your
team attitude. Do not brag, just say it in a matter-of-fact tone. This is a key point.

13. How long would you expect to work for us if hired?
Specifics here are not good. Something like this should work: I'd like it to be a long time. Or As long as we both feel I'm doing a good job.

14. Have you ever had to fire anyone? How did you feel about that?
This is serious. Do not make light of it or in any way seem like you like to fire people. At the same time, you will do it when it is the right thing to do. When it comes to the organization versus the individual who has created a harmful situation, you will protect the organization. Remember firing is not the same as layoff or reduction in force.

15. What is your philosophy towards work?
The interviewer is not looking for a long or flowery dissertation here. Do you have strong feelings that the job gets done? Yes. That's the type of answer that works best here. Short
and positive, showing a benefit to the organization.

16. If you had enough money to retire right now, would you?
Answer yes if you would. But since you need to work, this is the type of work you prefer. Do not say yes if you do not mean it.

17. Have you ever been asked to leave a position?
If you have not, say no. If you have, be honest, brief and avoid saying negative things about the people or organization involved.

18. Explain how you would be an asset to this organization
You should be anxious for this question. It gives you a chance to highlight your best points as they relate to the position being discussed. Give a little advance thought to this
relationship.

19. Why should we hire you?
Point out how your assets meet what the organization needs. Do not mention any other candidates to make a comparison.

20. Tell me about a suggestion you have made
Have a good one ready. Be sure and use a suggestion that was accepted and was then considered successful. One related to the type of work applied for is a real plus.

21. What irritates you about co-workers?
This is a trap question. Think real hard but fail to come up with anything that irritates you. A short statement that you seem to get along with folks is great.

22. What is your greatest strength?
Numerous answers are good, just stay positive. A few good examples:
Your ability to prioritize, Your problem-solving skills, Your ability to work under pressure, Your ability to focus on projects, Your professional expertise, Your leadership skills, Your positive attitude.

23. Tell me about your dream job.
Stay away from a specific job. You cannot win. If you say the job you are contending for is it, you strain credibility. If you say another job is it, you plant the suspicion that you will be dissatisfied with this position if hired. The best is to stay genetic and say something like: A job where I love the work, like the people, can contribute and can't wait to get to work.

24. Why do you think you would do well at this job?
Give several reasons and include skills, experience and interest.

25. What are you looking for in a job?
See answer # 23

26. What kind of person would you refuse to work with?
Do not be trivial. It would take disloyalty to the organization, violence or lawbreaking to get you to object. Minor objections will label you as a whiner.

27. What is more important to you: the money or the work?
Money is always important, but the work is the most important. There is no better answer.

28. What would your previous supervisor say your strongest point is?
There are numerous good possibilities: Loyalty, Energy, Positive attitude, Leadership, Team player, Expertise, Initiative, Patience, Hard work, Creativity, Problem solver

29. Tell me about a problem you had with a supervisor
Biggest trap of all. This is a test to see if you will speak ill of your boss. If you fall for it and tell about a problem with a former boss, you may well below the interview right there. Stay positive and develop a poor memory about any trouble with a supervisor.

30. What has disappointed you about a job?
Don't get trivial or negative. Safe areas are few but can include:
Not enough of a challenge. You were laid off in a reduction Company did not win a contract, which would have given you more responsibility.

31. Tell me about your ability to work under pressure.
You may say that you thrive under certain types of pressure. Give an example that relates to the type of position applied for.

32. Do your skills match this job or another job more closely?
Probably this one. Do not give fuel to the suspicion that you may want another job more than this one.

33. What motivates you to do your best on the job?
This is a personal trait that only you can say, but good examples are:
Challenge, Achievement, Recognition

34. Are you willing to work overtime? Nights? Weekends?
This is up to you. Be totally honest.

35. How would you know you were successful on this job?
Several ways are good measures:
You set high standards for yourself and meet them. Your outcomes are a success.Your boss tell you that you are successful

36. Would you be willing to relocate if required?
You should be clear on this with your family prior to the interview if you think there is a chance it may come up. Do not say yes just to get the job if the real answer is no. This can
create a lot of problems later on in your career. Be honest at this point and save yourself future grief.

37. Are you willing to put the interests of the organization ahead of your own?
This is a straight loyalty and dedication question. Do not worry about the deep ethical and philosophical implications. Just say yes.

38. Describe your management style.
Try to avoid labels. Some of the more common labels, like progressive, salesman or consensus, can have several meanings or descriptions depending on which management
expert you listen to. The situational style is safe, because it says you will manage according to the situation, instead of one size fits all.

39. What have you learned from mistakes on the job?
Here you have to come up with something or you strain credibility. Make it small, well intentioned mistake with a positive lesson learned. An example would be working too far
ahead of colleagues on a project and thus throwing coordination off.

40. Do you have any blind spots?
Trick question. If you know about blind spots, they are no longer blind spots. Do not reveal any personal areas of concern here. Let them do their own discovery on your bad points. Do
not hand it to them.

41. If you were hiring a person for this job, what would you look for?
Be careful to mention traits that are needed and that you have.

42. Do you think you are overqualified for this position?
Regardless of your qualifications, state that you are very well qualified for the position.

43. How do you propose to compensate for your lack of experience?
First, if you have experience that the interviewer does not know about, bring that up: Then, point out (if true) that you are a hard working quick learner.

44. What qualities do you look for in a boss?
Be generic and positive. Safe qualities are knowledgeable, a sense of humor, fair, loyal to subordinates and holder of high standards. All bosses think they have these traits.

45. Tell me about a time when you helped resolve a dispute between others.
Pick a specific incident. Concentrate on your problem solving technique and not the dispute you settled.

46. What position do you prefer on a team working on a project?
Be honest. If you are comfortable in different roles, point that out.

47. Describe your work ethic.
Emphasize benefits to the organization. Things like, determination to get the job done and work hard but enjoy your work are good.

48. What has been your biggest professional disappointment?
Be sure that you refer to something that was beyond your control. Show acceptance and no negative feelings.

49. Tell me about the most fun you have had on the job.
Talk about having fun by accomplishing something for the organization.

50. Do you have any questions for me?
Always have some questions prepared. Questions prepared where you will be an asset to the organization are good. How soon will I be able to be productive? and What type of projects will I be able to assist on? are examples.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
http://www.techinterviews.com/40-student-interview-questions-from-netapp
40 student interview questions from NetApp

Why did you choose your major?


Why did you choose your school?


Describe a recent leadership experience.


Which courses have you enjoyed the most? The least? Why?


What is your GPA?


If you could do so, how would you plan your education differently?


Describe your most rewarding college experience. Your most challenging.


Tell me about yourself.


What do you consider to be your greatest strengths?


If you could change one thing about yourself, what would it be?


Describe a time you failed at something and how you handled it?


What three keywords would your peers use to describe you, and why?


Give me an example of something complex that you needed to effectively communicate to others. What made it complex? Why was it difficult to communicate?


Tell me about an important goal that you set in the past. Were you successful? Why?


Tell me about a situation where you had to speak up (be assertive) in order to put across a point that was important to you.


Describe the most significant written document, report, or presentation, you have completed.


Tell me about something you have done that is very creative.


Describe a time when you were faced with problems or stress that tested your coping skills. What did you do?


What motivated you to apply for this position?


What interests you most about this job? Least?


Why do you want to work for our company?


What do you know about our company?


What two or three things are most important to you in your job?


If you were hiring a graduate for this position, what successful characteristics would you look for in a candidate?


Describe three key skills or qualities you would bring to this position.


Why should we hire you?


Describe your job-related skills and experience, and how they relate to this position.


What have you learned most from some of the jobs you have held?


What did you enjoy most about your last job? Least?


How would a former supervisor or professor describe you and your work?


Describe a workplace challenge you faced and how you handled it.


Tell me about a time you worked on a team. How did you handle it?


Describe an experience involving a deadline. How were you able to finish on time?


Describe a time you went above and beyond the call of duty to get a job done.


Give me an example of your ability to lead others.


Tell me about a time you wish you had done more planning. What did you learn?


What are your short-range career goals?


What are your long-range career goals? How are you preparing yourself to achieve them?


What characteristics do you possess that will make you successful in your career?


Who, or what, influenced you most with regard to your career objectives?


What three keywords would your peers use to describe you, and why?


Describe your job-related skills and experience, and how they relate to this position


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


http://www.techinterviews.com/hiring-an-it-guy-questions-to-ask


Hiring an IT guy - questions to ask

What port does telnet use?
Ans: 23 by default


What is SMTP?
Ans: Short for Simple Mail Transfer Protocol, a protocol for sending e-mail messages between servers. Most e-mail systems that send mail over the Internet use SMTP to send messages from one server to another; the messages can then be retrieved with an e-mail client using either POP or IMAP. In addition, SMTP is generally used to send messages from a mail client to a mail server. This is why you need to specify both the POP or IMAP server and the SMTP server when you configure your e-mail application.

How would you troubleshoot a printer?
Ans: Here are a few simple techniques that will solve many printer problems.
Reboot your computer. This generally solves most printing problems.
If it’s not printing, or you’re getting a message about the Fax printer, change your default printer: Start - Settings - Printers/Faxes. Right-click the printer you want, and then select (left-click) Set as Default.
Check and make sure all connections going to and coming from the printer are firmly in place.
Check that the printer is on-line:
Start - Settings - Printers, right-click the printer.
If there isn’t a checkmark by “Set as Default”, left-click that option to select it.
Print a test page. If that prints and the application you are using doesn’t, you probably will need to contact the application’s vendor for support.
Turn off your printer for 10 seconds and turn it back on. Make a note of any error messages or flashing lights when the printer is turned back on.
If your printer is connected directly to another computer, try rebooting that computer. If your printer is connected to a JetDirect box, try unplugging the JetDirect box for 10 seconds.
You may wish to uninstall and then re-install your printer.


How does traceroute work?
Ans: When you execute a trace route command (ie trace route http://www.yahoo.com), your machine sends out 3 UDP packets with a TTL (Time-to-Live) of 1. When those packets reach the next hop router, it will decrease the TTL to 0 and thus reject the packet. It will send an ICMP Time-to-Live Exceeded (Type 11), TTL equal 0 during transit (Code 0) back to your machine - with a source address of itself, therefore you now know the address of the first router in the path.
Next your machine will send 3 UDP packets with a TTL of 2, thus the first router that you already know passes the packets on to the next router after reducing the TTL by 1 to 1. The next router decreases the TTL to 0, thus rejecting the packet and sending the same ICMP Time-to-Live Exceeded with its address as the source back to your machine. Thus you now know the first 2 routers in the path.
This keeps going until you reach the destination. Since you are sending UDP packets with the destination address of the host you are concerned with, once it gets to the destination the UDP packet is wanting to connect to the port that you have sent as the destination port, since it is an uncommon port, it will most like be rejected with an ICMP Destination Unreachable (Type 3), Port Unreachable (Code 3). This ICMP message is sent back to your machine, which will understand this as being the last hop, therefore trace route will exit, giving you the hops between you and the destination.
The UDP packet is sent on a high port, destined to another high port. On a Linux box, these ports were not the same, although usually in the 33000. The source port stayed the same throughout the session, however the destination port was increase by one for each packet sent out.
One note, traceroute actually sends 1 UDP packet of TTL, waits for the return ICMP message, sends the second UDP packet, waits, sends the third, waits, etc, etc, etc.
If during the session, you receive * * *, this could mean that that router in the path does not return ICMP messages, it returns messages with a TTL too small to reach your machine or a router with buggy software. After a * * * within the path, trace route will still increment the TTL by 1, thus still continuing on in the path determination.


Walk me through everything that happens in the network from the moment you punch in www.google.com in the address bar to when the browser displays the page?


Can you work this weekend?


What kind of people are your current users? Do you like them?


What role do you think computer support analysts should play in the company?


Assuming you have to work for a living and all jobs pay the same, how would you describe the job you want?


When conflict arises on your team, how do you handle it?


How do you stay current?


What operating system do you prefer and why?


What part of the project life cycle have you worked on?


Describe the project or situation that best demonstrates your coding (or analytical) skills.


What is the differece between local, global and universal groups?


What is the major difference between FAT and NTFS?
Ans: NTFS
1)allows access local to w2k,w2k3,XP,win NT4 with SP4 & later may get access for somefile.
2)Maximum size of partition is 2 Terabytes & more.
3)Maximum File size is upto 16TB.
4)File & folder Encryption is possible only in NTFS.
FAT 32
1)Fat 32 Allows access to win 95,98,win millenium,win2k,xp on local partition.
2)Maximum size of partition is upto 2 TB.
3)Maximum File size is upto 4 GB.
4)File & folder Encryption is not possible.


Name the FMSO roles and their functions.


You’ve just been asked to create 20 new Users and update 2 GPOs, ASAP! You go to the Administrative Tools, and discover they are all gone. What do you do? What do you suspect happened?


What is a Global Catalog?
Ans: The global catalog is a distributed data repository that contains a searchable, partial representation of every object in every domain in a multidomain Active Directory forest. The global catalog is stored on domain controllers that have been designated as global catalog servers and is distributed through multimaster replication. Searches that are directed to the global catalog are faster because they do not involve referrals to different domain controllers.


Explain the function of DNS.
Ans : The main function of DNS is the mapping of IP addresses to human readable names. Three main components of DNS - resolver, name server, database of resource records (RRs)


Explain a “Two-Way Transitive” trust.
Ans: A two-way trust can be thought of as a combination of two, opposite-facing one-way trusts, so that, the trusting and trusted domains both trust each other (trust and access flow in both directions). This means that authentication requests can be passed between the two domains in both directions. Some two-way relationships can be either nontransitive or transitive depending on the type of trust being created. All domain trusts in an Active Directory forest are two-way, transitive trusts. When a new child domain is created, a two-way, transitive trust is automatically created between the new child domain and the parent domain.


In speaking about trusts, what does “Non-transitive” mean?
Ans: In a transitive trust relationship, the trust relationship extended to one domain is automatically extended to all other domains that trust that domain.
And In a nontransitive trust relationship, the trust is bound by the two domains in the trust relationship; it does not flow to any other domains in the forest.


Describe the lease process of DHCP.
DHCP leases are used to reduce DHCP network traffic by giving clients specific addresses for set periods of time.


Explain NTP.
Ans : The Network Time Protocol (NTP) is a protocol for distributing the universal time (UTC) by means of synchronizing the clocks of computer systems over packet-switched, variable-latency data networks. NTP uses UDP port 123 as its transport layer. It is designed particularly to resist the effects of variable latency by using a jitter buffer.


What is the 568B wiring scheme?
http://www.conniq.com/Networking_Cat5wiring.htm
EIA and TIA have produced many cable standards that are widely used in telecommunication and networking. The one that is often referred to in networking lessons is EIA/TIA-568 that's Commercial Building Telecommunications Cabling Standard.
EIA/TIA-568 is the basis for Cat 5 cable wiring scheme. Wires inside a Cat 5 cable are color-coded. There are four pairs of copper wires, but only two pairs are used for transmit and receive. The pair and pin designation for Cat5 cable is defined in EIA/TIA-568A and EIA/TIA-568B. 568A is the original standard which later is updated by 568B. The difference between 568A and 568B is clearly illustrated in the table below.
 	568A	568B
Pair	Wire	Pin	Wire	Pin
1	White/Blue	5	White/Blue	5
 	 Blue	4	 Blue	4
2	 White/Orange	3	 White/Orange	1
 	 Orange	6	 Orange	2
3	 White/Green	1	 White/Green	3
 	 Green	2	 Green	6
4	 White/Brown	7	 White/Brown	7
 	 Brown	8	 Brown	8
Table: 568A vs. 568B
Pin and pair designation in two EIA/TIA standards.

This applies to Cat 5, Cat 5e, and Cat 6 cables. 
The difference between 568A and 568B wiring scheme is in pair 2 and pair 3. In 568A, pin 3 (white/orange) and pin 6 (orange) combine in pair 2 while pin 1 (white/green) and pin 2 (green) in pair 3. In 568B, pin 1 (white/orange) and pin 2 (orange) combine in pair 2 while pin 3 (white/green) and pin 6 (green) in pair 3. Either 568A or 568B wiring scheme can be chosen but it must be used consistently throughout a network.


What us your highest achievement while working in the IT field?


What are your short term goals to achieve?


You have a user call for support for the 5th time on the same issue. How would you handle the call and what would you do differently?


List as many ways you can think of to move a file from a Windows machine to a Linux machine.


Demonstrate recursiveness by implementing a factorial function.


