http://www.techinterviews.com/java-networking-and-algoritms-interview-questions

Java networking and algoritms interview questions
By admin | December 13, 2003
What is the protocol used by server and client ?
Can I modify an object in CORBA ?
What is the functionality stubs and skeletons ?
What is the mapping mechanism used by Java to identify IDL language ?
Diff between Application and Applet ?
What is serializable Interface ?
What is the difference between CGI and Servlet ?
What is the use of Interface ?
Why Java is not fully objective oriented ?
Why does not support multiple Inheritance ?
What it the root class for all Java classes ?
What is polymorphism ?
Suppose If we have variable ‘ I ‘ in run method, If I can create one or more thread each thread will occupy a separate copy or same variable will be shared ?
In servlets, we are having a web page that is invoking servlets username and password ? which is checked in the database ? Suppose the second page also If we want to verify the same information whether it will connect to the database or it will be used previous information?
What are virtual functions ?
Write down how will you create a binary Tree ?
What are the traverses in Binary Tree ?
Write a program for recursive Traverse ?
What are session variable in Servlets ?
What is client server computing ?
What is Constructor and Virtual function? Can we call Virtual function in a constructor ?
Why we use OOPS concepts? What is its advantage ?
What is the middleware ? What is the functionality of Webserver ?
Why Java is not 100 % pure OOPS ? ( EcomServer )
When we will use an Interface and Abstract class ?
What is an RMI?
How will you pass parameters in RMI ? Why u serialize?
What is the exact difference in between Unicast and Multicast object ? Where we will use ?
What is the main functionality of the Remote Reference Layer ?
How do you download stubs from a Remote place ?
What is the difference in between C++ and Java ? can u explain in detail ?
I want to store more than 10 objects in a remote server ? Which methodology will follow ?
What is the main functionality of the Prepared Statement ?
What is meant by static query and dynamic query ?
What are the Normalization Rules ? Define the Normalization ?
What is meant by Servlet? What are the parameters of the service method ?
What is meant by Session ? Tell me something about HTTPSession Class ?
How do you invoke a Servlet? What is the difference in between doPost and doGet methods ?
What is the difference in between the HTTPServlet and Generic Servlet ? Explain their methods ? Tell me their parameter names also ?
Have you used threads in Servlet ?
Write a program on RMI and JDBC using StoredProcedure ?
How do you sing an Applet ?
In a Container there are 5 components. I want to display the all the components names, how will you do that one ?
Why there are some null interface in java ? What does it mean ? Give me some null interfaces in JAVA ?
Tell me the latest versions in JAVA related areas ?
What is meant by class loader ? How many types are there? When will we use them ?
How do you load an Image in a Servlet ?
What is meant by flickering ?
What is meant by distributed Application ? Why we are using that in our applications ?
What is the functionality of the stub ?
Have you used any version control ?
What is the latest version of JDBC ? What are the new features are added in that ?
Explain 2 tier and 3 -tier Architecture ?
What is the role of the webserver ?
How have you done validation of the fields in your project ?
What is the main difficulties that you are faced in your project ?
What is meant by cookies ? Explain ?
