SQL interview questions and answers
http://www.techinterviews.com/sql-interview-questions-and-answers

What are two methods of retrieving SQL?


What cursor type do you use to retrieve multiple recordsets?


What is the difference between a "where" clause and a "having" clause? - "Where" is a kind of restiriction statement. You use where clause to restrict all the data from DB.Where clause is using before result retrieving. But Having clause is using after retrieving the data.Having clause is a kind of filtering command.


What is the basic form of a SQL statement to read data out of a table? The basic form to read data out of table is ‘SELECT * FROM table_name; ‘ An answer: ‘SELECT * FROM table_name WHERE xyz= ‘whatever’;’ cannot be called basic form because of WHERE clause.


What structure can you implement for the database to speed up table reads? - Follow the rules of DB tuning we have to: 1] properly use indexes ( different types of indexes) 2] properly locate different DB objects across different tablespaces, files and so on.3] create a special space (tablespace) to locate some of the data with special datatype ( for example CLOB, LOB and …)


What are the tradeoffs with having indexes? - 1. Faster selects, slower updates. 2. Extra storage space to store indexes. Updates are slower because in addition to updating the table you have to update the index.


What is a "join"? - ‘join’ used to connect two or more tables logically with or without common field.


What is "normalization"? "Denormalization"? Why do you sometimes want to denormalize? - Normalizing data means eliminating redundant information from a table and organizing the data so that future changes to the table are easier. Denormalization means allowing redundancy in a table. The main benefit of denormalization is improved performance with simplified data retrieval and manipulation. This is done by reduction in the number of joins needed for data processing.


What is a "constraint"? - A constraint allows you to apply simple referential integrity checks to a table. There are four primary types of constraints that are currently supported by SQL Server: PRIMARY/UNIQUE - enforces uniqueness of a particular table column. DEFAULT - specifies a default value for a column in case an insert operation does not provide one. FOREIGN KEY - validates that every value in a column exists in a column of another table. CHECK - checks that every value stored in a column is in some specified list. Each type of constraint performs a specific type of action. Default is not a constraint. NOT NULL is one more constraint which does not allow values in the specific column to be null. And also it the only constraint which is not a table level constraint.


What types of index data structures can you have? - An index helps to faster search values in tables. The three most commonly used index-types are: - B-Tree: builds a tree of possible values with a list of row IDs that have the leaf value. Needs a lot of space and is the default index type for most databases. - Bitmap: string of bits for each possible value of the column. Each bit string has one bit for each row. Needs only few space and is very fast.(however, domain of value cannot be large, e.g. SEX(m,f); degree(BS,MS,PHD) - Hash: A hashing algorithm is used to assign a set of characters to represent a text string such as a composite of keys or partial keys, and compresses the underlying data. Takes longer to build and is supported by relatively few databases.


What is a "primary key"? - A PRIMARY INDEX or PRIMARY KEY is something which comes mainly from database theory. From its behavior is almost the same as an UNIQUE INDEX, i.e. there may only be one of each value in this column. If you call such an INDEX PRIMARY instead of UNIQUE, you say something about your table design, which I am not able to explain in few words. Primary Key is a type of a constraint enforcing uniqueness and data integrity for each row of a table. All columns participating in a primary key constraint must possess the NOT NULL property.


What is a "functional dependency"? How does it relate to database table design? - Functional dependency relates to how one object depends upon the other in the database. for example, procedure/function sp2 may be called by procedure sp1. Then we say that sp1 has functional dependency on sp2.


What is a "trigger"? - Triggers are stored procedures created in order to enforce integrity rules in a database. A trigger is executed every time a data-modification operation occurs (i.e., insert, update or delete). Triggers are executed automatically on occurance of one of the data-modification operations. A trigger is a database object directly associated with a particular table. It fires whenever a specific statement/type of statement is issued against that table. The types of statements are insert,update,delete and query statements. Basically, trigger is a set of SQL statements A trigger is a solution to the restrictions of a constraint. For instance: 1.A database column cannot carry PSEUDO columns as criteria where a trigger can. 2. A database constraint cannot refer old and new values for a row where a trigger can.


Why can a "group by" or "order by" clause be expensive to process? - Processing of "group by" or "order by" clause often requires creation of Temporary tables to process the results of the query. Which depending of the result set can be very expensive.


What is "index covering" of a query? - Index covering means that "Data can be found only using indexes, without touching the tables"


What types of join algorithms can you have?


What is a SQL view? - An output of a query can be stored as a view. View acts like small table which meets our criterion. View is a precomplied SQL query which is used to select data from one or more tables. A view is like a table but it doesn’t physically take any space. View is a good way to present data in a particular format if you use that query quite often. View can also be used to restrict users from accessing the tables directly.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


http://www.techinterviews.com/sql-interview-questions-and-answers-2
SQL interview questions and answers - 2


Which of the following statements contains an error?
SELECT * FROM emp WHERE empid = 493945;
SELECT empid FROM emp WHERE empid= 493945;
SELECT empid FROM emp;
SELECT empid WHERE empid = 56949 AND lastname = ‘SMITH’;



Which of the following correctly describes how to specify a column alias?
Place the alias at the beginning of the statement to describe the table.
Place the alias after each column, separated by white space, to describe the column.
Place the alias after each column, separated by a comma, to describe the column.
Place the alias at the end of the statement to describe the table.
The NVL function
Assists in the distribution of output across multiple columns.
Allows the user to specify alternate output for non-null column values.
Allows the user to specify alternate output for null column values.
Nullifies the value of the column output.
Output from a table called PLAYS with two columns, PLAY_NAME and AUTHOR, is shown below. Which of the following SQL statements produced it?
PLAY_TABLE
————————————-
“Midsummer Night’s Dream”, SHAKESPEARE
“Waiting For Godot”, BECKETT
“The Glass Menagerie”, WILLIAMS

SELECT play_name || author FROM plays;
SELECT play_name, author FROM plays;
SELECT play_name||’, ‘ || author FROM plays;
SELECT play_name||’, ‘ || author PLAY_TABLE FROM plays;
Issuing the DEFINE_EDITOR=”emacs” will produce which outcome?
The emacs editor will become the SQL*Plus default text editor.
The emacs editor will start running immediately.
The emacs editor will no longer be used by SQL*Plus as the default text editor.
The emacs editor will be deleted from the system.
The user issues the following statement. What will be displayed if the EMPID selected is 60494?
SELECT DECODE(empid,38475, “Terminated”,60494, “LOA”, “ACTIVE”)
FROM emp;

60494
LOA
Terminated
ACTIVE
SELECT (TO_CHAR(NVL(SQRT(59483), “INVALID”)) FROM DUAL is a valid SQL statement.
TRUE
FALSE
The appropriate table to use when performing arithmetic calculations on values defined within the SELECT statement (not pulled from a table column) is
EMP
The table containing the column values
DUAL
An Oracle-defined table
Which of the following is not a group function?
avg( )
sqrt( )
sum( )
max( )
Once defined, how long will a variable remain so in SQL*Plus?
Until the database is shut down
Until the instance is shut down
Until the statement completes
Until the session completes
The default character for specifying runtime variables in SELECT statements is
Ampersand
Ellipses
Quotation marks
Asterisk
A user is setting up a join operation between tables EMP and DEPT. There are some employees in the EMP table that the user wants returned by the query, but the employees are not assigned to departments yet. Which SELECT statement is most appropriate for this user?
select e.empid, d.head from emp e, dept d;
select e.empid, d.head from emp e, dept d where e.dept# = d.dept#;
select e.empid, d.head from emp e, dept d where e.dept# = d.dept# (+);
select e.empid, d.head from emp e, dept d where e.dept# (+) = d.dept#;
Developer ANJU executes the following statement: CREATE TABLE animals AS SELECT * from MASTER.ANIMALS; What is the effect of this statement?
A table named ANIMALS will be created in the MASTER schema with the same data as the ANIMALS table owned by ANJU.
A table named ANJU will be created in the ANIMALS schema with the same data as the ANIMALS table owned by MASTER.
A table named ANIMALS will be created in the ANJU schema with the same data as the ANIMALS table owned by MASTER.
A table named MASTER will be created in the ANIMALS schema with the same data as the ANJU table owned by ANIMALS.
User JANKO would like to insert a row into the EMPLOYEE table, which has three columns: EMPID, LASTNAME, and SALARY. The user would like to enter data for EMPID 59694, LASTNAME Harris, but no salary. Which statement would work best?
INSERT INTO employee VALUES (59694,’HARRIS’, NULL);
INSERT INTO employee VALUES (59694,’HARRIS’);
INSERT INTO employee (EMPID, LASTNAME, SALARY) VALUES (59694,’HARRIS’);
INSERT INTO employee (SELECT 59694 FROM ‘HARRIS’);
Which three of the following are valid database datatypes in Oracle? (Choose three.)
CHAR
VARCHAR2
BOOLEAN
NUMBER
Omitting the WHERE clause from a DELETE statement has which of the following effects?
The delete statement will fail because there are no records to delete.
The delete statement will prompt the user to enter criteria for the deletion
The delete statement will fail because of syntax error.
The delete statement will remove all records from the table.
Creating a foreign-key constraint between columns of two tables defined with two different datatypes will produce an error.
TRUE
FALSE
Dropping a table has which of the following effects on a nonunique index created for the table?
No effect.
The index will be dropped.
The index will be rendered invalid.
The index will contain NULL values.
To increase the number of nullable columns for a table,
Use the alter table statement.
Ensure that all column values are NULL for all rows.
First increase the size of adjacent column datatypes, then add the column.
Add the column, populate the column, then add the NOT NULL constraint.
Which line of the following statement will produce an error?
CREATE TABLE goods
(good_no NUMBER,
good_name VARCHAR2 check(good_name in (SELECT name FROM avail_goods)),
CONSTRAINT pk_goods_01
PRIMARY KEY (goodno));
There are no errors in this statement.
MAXVALUE is a valid parameter for sequence creation.
TRUE
FALSE
Which of the following lines in the SELECT statement below contain an error?
SELECT DECODE(empid, 58385, “INACTIVE”, “ACTIVE”) empid
FROM emp
WHERE SUBSTR(lastname,1,1) > TO_NUMBER(’S')
AND empid > 02000
ORDER BY empid DESC, lastname ASC;
There are no errors in this statement.
Which function below can best be categorized as similar in function to an IF-THEN-ELSE statement?
SQRT
DECODE
NEW_TIME
ROWIDTOCHAR
Which two of the following orders are used in ORDER BY clauses? (choose two)
ABS
ASC
DESC
DISC
You query the database with this command
SELECT name
FROM employee
WHERE name LIKE ‘_a%’;

Which names are displayed?

Names starting with “a”
Names starting with “aR
or “A”
Names containing “aR
as second character
Names containing “aR
as any letter except the first
